This is the MITRE Attack Framework.
So it's a globally accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on
real-world observation and there's so much rich insight in
this framework that comes from a variety of intelligence sources.
Now, I will walk you through the framework at a high level here,
but also encourage you to take some time to click through a few more areas on your own.
Now, the top column headers in the gray bar along the top signify
the different goals of the threat actor
during various parts of the attack while the rows underneath,
so the white boxes with blue text in them,
show the attack tactics that are commonly used to achieve those goals.
So each one of these provides a ton of rich context around these attack methods.
So if you're wondering, let's say,
how an attacker might gain initial access to our system.
That's this section over here.
If you click on "Initial Access," you'd see more information
on this attack method, the definition here.
So you can see it's an adversary trying to get access to your network, pretty basic.
If you scroll down,
you see the different techniques that attackers can
use to accomplish this and descriptions.
So they could do a drive-by compromise,
they can use external remote services and so on.
Let's pick one to dig in a little bit more.
Let's say we want to explore how attackers can use valid accounts to gain initial access.
If we click into that one,
you'll see even more information.
Here's a definition of what it is,
and it continues to get into greater detail below but basically,
if an attacker is trying to use valid accounts to get initial access,
they're using different techniques to capture
credentials and so on through social engineering to get access.
On the right side of the screen here,
you can see more details about this tactic.
So everything from some descriptive terms that are used
to what platforms does this apply to and more information here.
If you keep scrolling down,
you'll see procedure examples.
So these are real examples where threat actors have
used this attack method of using valid accounts to gain initial access.
You can see some of the tactics and things they've used.
For example, let's look at APT39,
is the name of this one.
They have used stolen credentials to compromise Outlook Web Access.
If you wanted to look even further into how they did this,
you would click on this group and you can see a ton of more information about them.
You learned more about these groups in lesson 1.
So we won't go into too much detail here,
but you can learn so much about the groups who
have carried out attacks using that method.
So a long list here and so much information.
If you continue to scroll down the page,
you then get to a lot
more helpful information around mitigation techniques and detection.
When we say mitigation,
we mean now that we know that this attack method exists,
like what are the different ways to mitigate that and to avoid it.
There are recommendations here on everything from making sure that
sensitive credentials are not stored in an insecure ways
to auditing source code and so on and you
can even click into each of these options to get more information.
Then finally, scrolling down to detection and resources.
So from a detection standpoint,
this is telling you,
how do I know that this attack tactic is being used in my network?
How do I detect it?
So there's tips on how to do that.
Then this references area is golden,
because here you can really start to do additional research and look
into more detail on various artifacts and various resources.
So a wealth of information here and I want to call out as we go back to
the main page that we only clicked into one box and got all of that information.
So when you see how many different boxes are here,
that can give you a sense of just how
detailed your research can get when you're looking into these attacks.
The last thing that I'll call out is this Get
Started resource here is another super-helpful thing to look into.
So here you have blog posts,
you have starter videos that can really help you dig into
this framework a lot more and learn some additional details.
That is the MITRE Attack Framework.